#summary Description of the configuration file and its options

Your configuration/preferences file is located in ~/.googlecl/config.
You can also specify a file with the --config option.

==Options==
Each option description follows the format {{{<name>: [<values>]}}} description

===All sections===
Each of these values can be found in any section. The service being run will try to find the option in its own section, and failing that, in the GENERAL section.

 * {{{list_style: [<style>,<style>,...]}}} Comma-separated (no spaces) list of attributes to print out when using the 'list' task and no styles are specified on the command line. For a list of styles, see the README or the [http://code.google.com/p/googlecl/wiki/Manual#The_List_task Manual].
 * {{{<option>: [<string>]}}} You can specify any option in the config file to use as a "general" case. When a command-line option is required (for example the username, or the title of an album created with Picasa), and nothing is passed in via the command line, this value will be used.

===Picasa===
 * {{{access: [public, private, protected]}}} The default access level of the albums you create. Public means visible to all, private means unlisted, protected means sign-in required to view the album.

===Docs===
 * {{{xxx_format: [<extension>]}}} The extension to use for a type of document. The types of document are document, spreadsheet, and presentation. PDF files automatically use 'pdf' as the extension
 * {{{xxx_editor: [<editor>]}}} The editor to use for a type of document. The types of document are the same as the xxx_format option, plus pdf_editor in case you have a pdf editor.
 * {{{editor: [<editor>]}}} The editor to use by default if the document type is not defined by an xxx_editor option. If this is not defined, will use the EDITOR environment variable instead.
 * {{{format: [<extension>]}}} The extension to use by default if the document type is not defined by an xxx_format option.


===General===
 * {{{auth_browser: [<browser>]}}} Browser to launch when authenticating the OAuth request token. You should only need to authenticate to each service once.
 * {{{date_print_format: [<format string>]}}} Format to use when printing date information. See the [http://docs.python.org/library/time.html#time.strftime Python "time" documentation] for formats. For example: "%m %d at %H" for {{{<month> <day> at <hour>}}}
 * {{{delete_by_default: [True, False]}}} When prompted to confirm deletion of an object, hitting enter directly will confirm the delete.
 * {{{delete_prompt: [True, False]}}} Prompt to confirm deletion of items.
 * {{{missing_field_value: [<string>]}}} Placeholder string to use when listing an invalid attribute, for example, the url of a contact.
 * {{{regex: [True, False]}}} Use regular expressions in matching titles.
 * {{{tags_prompt: [True, False]}}} Prompt for tags for each item being uploaded. (Not fully implemented).
 * {{{url_style: [site, direct]}}} Which sub-style to use for listing urls. Site will typically put you at the website, while direct is usually a link directly to the resource.