#summary Complex things that you can do (or we want to be able to do)

*Note:* I've replaced `$ ./google-cl.py` with `> ` for simplicity's sake.
This document is current as of at least r75

= Implemented =
Useful things GoogleCL can do (we hope) as of the current revision.

This section isn't as interesting as the others, so it gets less attention. Look at the README for what you can currently do.


= Guiding =
Things we want GoogleCL to be able to do in the short term. Implementing any one of these scenarios should take a couple of days.

===Export contacts to a spreadsheet===
Code:
{{{
> contacts list title,email > my_contacts.csv
> docs upload my_contacts.csv
}}}
Blocking: Contacts API not supported yet

===Upload a photo to picasa then email the link to all your contacts===
Code:
{{{
> picasa post --album album_to_post_to /path/to/photo.jpg
> picasa list url-site --album album_to_post > link_to_photo_in_album.txt
> mail --to contact1,contact2 --subject "New Photo!" link_to_photo_in_album.txt
}}}
Blocking: No Gmail python client library, no write access to gmail (read-only feeds), difficult to list photos unless you know precise tags / name of photo.

===Upload photos in a directory tree to picasa and create a spreadsheet of them===
Code:
{{{
> picasa create --album new_album /path/to/photos/*.jpg
> picasa list title,url-direct --album new_album --delimiter , > new_album.csv
> docs upload new_album.csv
}}}
Blocking: list command as written will list the album data not the data of photos inside

= Future =
Things that would be really super cool if GoogleCL could do them. They may be totally feasible given a decent amount of time, or insanely difficult.

===Show what you have to do today===
Code:
{{{
> cal today
}}}
Blocking: No calendar service support yet (client libraries do exist, though).

===Search Google for top results, summaries, links, etc.===
Code:
{{{
> search --csv 'omgponies'
"OMG! Ponies!","Apr 9, 2010","OMG! Ponies! is powered by WordPress 2.9.1 and Re...","www.omg-ponies.com/"

[...]
}}}
Blocking: Google search results aren't involved with the GData protocol - a separate HTTP client would have to be written.

===Get latitude and longitude for arbitrary addresses===
Code:
{{{
> maps search --latlong "1600 Amphitheatre 94043"
122.1234091,38.12313587,12
}}}
Blocking: No client libraries.

===Translate text via Google translate===
Code:
{{{
> translate --to "French" "this cheese is delicious"
}}}
Blocking: No python client library, low priority